# kickstarter-book

The purpose of this short project was to analyze a dataset of over 4000 Kickstarter campaigns.  Each campaign was assigned a colour-coded value from red for complete failure to reach their goal, shifting to green for higher rates of success and into blue for exceeding expectations.  The category and sub-category analyses show the success of projects within certain categories with a table filterable by country. I also added two line graphs that compare rate of success to the time of year the project was launched and to the project's initial goal.

I think we can fairly draw a few conclusions from this data.  First, theatre is the most popular category to launch a Kickstarter campaign in by a large margin.  This is clearly because this dataset contains 1066 projects that are plays, while no other subcategory exceeded 260 projects.  And no other parent category even exceeded 700 projects total.  So, I think it is reasonable to conclude that the most popular use of Kickstarter is to attempt to receive funding for plays.  Despite the large number of theatrical projects, the stacked column charts produced here show that they nonetheless do not have the best success rate.  Instead the category with the highest rate of success is music.  The sub-category analysis shows that this is largely due to the high rate of success of certain music subcategories (indie rock), while others didn’t even have an instance of a failed campaign in this dataset (rock, electronic, pop).  On the other hand, some of the lowest success rates were found in the food and games categories.  In the game category, we see that mobile and video game campaigns were never successful at attaining their goals.  In the food category, food trucks and restaurants were never successful.   So, I think it is fair to conclude that while Kickstarter is very effective in funding musical projects, it is not at all effective at funding projects related to food or gaming.

The line chart depicting yearly success shows that Kickstarter projects are most successfully funded earlier in the year, typically February to May.  During these months, the number of successful projects is often close to twice the number of failed projects.  There are fewer Kickstarter ventures launched overall in December, but by then the number of failed projects begins to outnumber the successful ones.  From this we can conclude that most successful time to start to Kickstarter project is around spring.  By filtering the results by category on the fourth sheet, we can an see that this appears to be largely due a spike in the number of theatrical projects launched around May, as well as a spike in the number of film and television projects in March.

While the stacked column charts in the category and sub-category analyses visually show that certain categories and subcategories clearly have higher success rates than others, it would be helpful to create a table that shows how successful each category and subcategory is as a percentage.  This dataset also contains some variables that we didn’t use for this activity, which might be enlightening.  It would be interesting to create a table that shows which categories tend to attract the highest number of backers and which categories tend to receive the largest average donations.
		
One of the limitations of this dataset is its size.  According to the assignment, there have been over 300,000 projects launched on Kickstarter and we only have data on a little over 4000 of them here.  That’s less than 1.4%.  A sign that this dataset might not be big enough to extrapolate to all of Kickstarter is that this data suggests that over half are successful, while the assignment states that less than a third of over 300,000 projects have had a favourable outcome.  It is also not clear if this dataset is a random sample or if it is taken from a certain subset.  If the data is skewed towards certain categories or countries, this analysis may not generalize to Kickstarter as a whole.  
